speaking of which, let's cover OneDrive recovery next.
As you know, OneDrive is Microsoft's file synchronization platform.
You have One Drive Personal for consumer users and OneDrive for
Business that relies upon Office 365 SharePoint Online,
but they both have the same basic method of operation.
You install the application on all your devices,
and your documents and their versions are synced across all those devices.
To do file recovery, this is going to require you to hit the web client,
the web portal as you see in this diagram.
Not only that, you'll want to look at the Recycle bin,
which is what I'm pointing out right here.
When you delete a file in OneDrive it goes to your Recycle bin first.
You also have Version history capability with OneDrive files,
so as a file evolves over time you can review the Version
history and then bring back previous versions.
To repeat this one more time,
you get the most flexibility with this when you're in
the web interface and not on a mobile, client,
or even in the Windows 10 desktop application experience.
Now,
understand that the notion of the Recycle bin in OneDrive is
subject to retention policy and not backup.
You have a window of time between 30 and 90 days,
depending upon which version of OneDrive you're using,
and OneDrive for Business, as you might expect,
has some additional layers of retention that an administrator can set.
But, once again, there's no backup.
If you put a file in the Recycle bin,
after the 30 days or whatever your current retention period is elapses,
that file may not be subject to recovery at all.
So this, again,
underscores the point that you need to have some
kind of backup solution in place.
Now, what we just looked at with File Recovery kind of answers that question,
because File Recovery will monitor and backup One Drive contents,
so it's nice to have that layer of protection.
The common theme that I just want to put through this entire module,
besides A,
the critical importance of having backup solution
in place and not overlooking it, is B,
I want you to recognize just how critical file data is.
If worse comes to worse, you can reinstall your operating system,
if worse comes to worse you can uninstall and reinstall applications,
those are fine, but your data, the files that you create and work on,
are truly potentially unrecoverable losses,
so the data is, I mean, it's precious, let's put it that way, at least it is to me.